<h1>Truck_Project1</h1>
<br />
Truck_Project1 is an automotive SCADA system which uses a Xilinx Spartan-3E to <br />
monitor real-time data, an STM32F100RB to handle a keypad and route message<br />
traffic, a ATMEGA328P to drive a t6963 LCD screen, and a TS-7200/7800 to do<br />
I/O (turning on and off lights and reading switches).<br />
<br />
The STM32 will route message traffic to and from the FPGA, the <br />
TS-7200 and the LCD screen.<br />
<br />
The menuing of the LCD screen and can display optional real time info like engine speed,<br />
engine temp, oil pressure etc coming directly from the FPGA.<br />
<br />
There will also be a task to read the ADC's which measure temp sensors and the oil pressure.<br />
The FPGA has 2 serial ports (transmit only) that send rpm & mph data to a couple of off-the-<br />
shelf 4 digit LED's that will be on the dashboard. The FPGA also sends the rpm & mph data to<br />
the PIC via the SPI (as master).<br />
<br />
Other telemetry data can be added later like distributor timing to use for spark advance.<br />
The TS-7200 has a removable (not hot-swapable) compact flash disk so the idea is to have a <br />
'black box' FDR that records the last so many hours or minutes of the telemetry data to a<br />
file that can be downloaded later.<br />
<br />
<h2>directories:</h2>
STM32 - generated by STM32CubeMX and compiles with TrueStudio (I used the ST-LINK Utility<br />
to upload the hex file to the chip<br />
AVR_t6963 - ATMEGA328p source and support files (uses avrdude)<br />
thread_io - source for the TS-7200/7800 cards (from Technologic Systems)<br />
thread_io/cs_client - source for the windows program that runs on the laptop and communicates<br />
with the TS-7200/7800.<br />
(see: https://github.com/juhgiyo/EpServerEngine.cs)<br />
Truck_App1 - source for the FPGA (Xilinx Spartan-3E) in VHDL<br />
XMEGA - an AVR XMEGA processor is used to drive the LED's for rpm/mph from a USART TX signal<br />
from the FPGA which reads the rpm and mph signals<br />
<br />
STM32 - <br />
<br />
<h2>thread_io</h2>
The thread_io directory has files used to compile an embedded linux program that uses<br />
the POSIX pthread library to handle serial io and tcp/ip traffic and drive a io card that<br />
plugs into the TS-7XXX PC-104 bus. I bought the cards used on ebay. They are orginally from<br />
Tri-M Engineering. Each card has 20 inputs and 20 outputs. The outputs are small 5A relays<br />
onboard the card. The cards can be set to accessed and different memory/io addresses so up<br />
to 4 can be stacked on each other. I've tried just about every free RTOS out there and<br />
no-one seems to have the ports to work on the TS-7200 which use the ARM920T processor with<br />
the EP9301 chipset. I like the uCOS-II Jean J. Labrosse of Micrium, Weston, FL and he has<br />
the port files for the ARM processor but I wasn't inclined to take a year-long self-course<br />
on ARM assembly language, linux internals and the ARM architecture, although I did 'hack'<br />
through it for a while. So using the POSIX pthreads are a pretty good alternative and you<br />
can learn more about pthreads from 'Pthreads Programming' by Dick Buttlar from O'Reilly.<br />
<br />
<h2>Truck_App1</h2>
The Truck_App1 directory has all the files for compiling (if you want to call it that)<br />
a Spartan-3E FPGA from Xilinx. The files ending in .vhd are the VHDL programming language<br />
and I used a free copy of ISE from Xilinx. Actually, I tried to download it from the <br />
Xilinx website recently and its not exactly free since now you have to have a verifiable<br />
company and phone no. so I'm using a free copy I downloaded a couple years ago. The<br />
particular board running this is called an XC3S500E which only has the Spartan-3E chip,<br />
the clock and the pinout connectors for no less that 200 io pins. These can be purchased<br />
on ebay for about $35USD. All the other development boards have all the buttons, LEDs,<br />
DB connectors and USB ports which I didn't need. The only problem with the io connectors<br />
with these is that they are not the standard 1mm pitch that fits nicely into most<br />
perfboards which is what I'm using since I'm not into making my own printed circuit<br />
boards. If you can find a copy of ISE from Xilinx, it also comes with a simulator called<br />
ISim which lets you see how your VHDL program works and is really useful for testing<br />
and debugging the FPGA. The other alternative to Xilinx would be Altera which is probably<br />
geared more towards the hobbiest, I would think, but I'm too far down the rabbit hole<br />
now. If you want a copy of ISE, email me at hwswhacker1256@gmail.com and I'll see if<br />
I can get the file to you via ftp or something.<br />
<br />
You can learn more about VHDL and FPGA by doing a google search but here's the executive<br />
summary: <br />
<br />
With most modern micropressors and microcontrollers you write a program in C/C++ or<br />
whatever, compile it to a binary file, load it to the processor memory and the hardware<br />
on the chip executes each instruction from the binary file step by step. With the FPGA<br />
(Field Programmable Gate Array) the VHDL code lets you build the hardware or the<br />
processor core. In other words, the ISE development system actually routes the <br />
connections on the chip so you can have parallel processes running completely<br />
independent of each other in real time. This is really powerful when doing high speed<br />
data aquisition but its a steep learning curve. The ISim is really helpful and I took<br />
most of my code from the examples from the book 'FPGA Prototyping by VHDL example' by<br />
Pong. P. Chu. <br />
<br />
<h2>thread_io/cs_client</h2>
The thread_io/cs_client directory has the main *.cs files for compiling a windows<br />
program in Visual Studio 2017 using C# using SQL server and a tcp/ip connection to the<br />
TS-7200/7800 box. The program running on the TS-7XXX box opens a couple binary files ending 
in .dat which are a data base where each record is a configuration for each of the 20 io ports.
The dat files starting with an 'o' are for the the 20 output ports and the dat files starting 
with an 'i' are for the 20 input ports. Basically, when there is a change on one of the inputs,
it can effect any one of the 20 outputs. So that way you can assign different outputs to
inputs. The windows program lets you change the configuration or load different dat files.
This can be kind of dicey for things like the starter motor so the ioport assigned
to the start switch only activates a relay that enables a button on the dash to close
the circuit the the actual starter solinoid. <br />
<br />
See also:<br />
io_box.txt - notes on the box with the TS-7200 and (2) IO cards<br />
main_box.txt - for details about the wiring and connections<br />


